---
title: "Hugo Guide: Add Table of Contents In Markdown"
slug: hugo-add-table-of-contents-markdown
date: 2021-01-18T08:03:39+07:00
lastmod: 2021-01-18T08:03:39+07:00
description: "Guide how to add table of contents in the middle of your article body with custom shortcode"
tags: ["hugo"]
featured: "./cover.png"
author: Nurahmat
draft: false
---

Hugo is my final choice after get confused to choose what static site
generator should I use. I ended up with this amazing SSG!

And I'm quite happy because this is the best website that I ever had in my
live it's has rich feature of the way formatting the text. 

## TOC Anywhere Now, I'm Happy

a thing that has huge impact for the reason why I stick with Hugo is
actually I can add table of contents in the middle my article as shown
below.

> **Note !** I only give you the basic implementation neither the style or
javascript code, I believe you can do it by yourself.

{{< toc >}}

You see it? Well, how amazing is it! In this article I'm gonna share with
you how I do it, keep reading!

## Make TOC in Your Markdown
According to the hugo documentation, we can add table of contents with this
simple code.
{{< code name="hugo" >}}
{{< highlight golang >}}
{{ .TableOfContents }}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< /code >}}

Unexpectedly, I feel like an Idea come out from my brain.

> How if I add this at the middle on my article, maybe I have to make
custom shortcodes.

My first try I get an error, because there's something wrong with my custom
shortcodes, and then I review again the hugo documentation about
**shortcodes**. Got it!

### Creating Custom Shortcodes
Assume that you already know where the custom shortcodes located
`layouts/shortcodes/` yep, in this directory.

Let's create file named `toc.html` and add inside that this code.
{{< code name="toc.html" >}}
{{< highlight html >}}
{{ .Page.TableOfContents }}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< /code >}}

You got it? Something changed, I added `.Page` it refers to the content
file as hugo docs said.

Then, just save the file and follow the usage guide.

### Usage
We already have custom shortcodes that show table of contents. Now, you may
know or not how to use it, I'll still give you the tutorial.

Simply, just put the shortcodes `{{</* toc */>}}` inside your markdown file
as shown below.

```
---
title: TOC Usage Guide For Hugo
draft: true
---

## Some title goes here
{{</* toc */>}}
### Subtitle
Some Paragraph
```

### Conclusion
Shortcodes is quite awesome for more flexibility and customization of
your content generated by Hugo.

**Was this helpful? Anyway, sorry about my English.** 
